# Q2 Past Year Question and Answer

## Original Question

**Part (a)**

(i) Write PHP codes to store the following information shown in Table 1 into an associative array. Use `$state` as the variable name.

Table 1: Main Campus & Branches

| State Abbreviation | State Name |
| --- | --- |
| JH | Johor |
| KL | Kuala Lumpur |
| PH | Pahang |
| PN | Penang |
| PR | Perak |
| SB | Sabah |

(ii) Write PHP code to display the `$state` array excluding "KL" (Kuala Lumpur).

**Part (b)**

(i) In PHP, what is the purpose of the `implode` and `explode` functions?

(ii) Given a string: `$branches = "JH-PH-PN-PR-SB";` Convert it to an array and display it.

**Part (c)**

The following PHP codes are written:

```php
$msg = "I like C++ programming";
echo "Calculate a product of two numbers" . "<br>";
calProduct(2, 3);
```

(i) Based on the given function `calProduct()`, write PHP codes in the function to multiply two numbers, and then display the product (result).

(ii) Write PHP codes to replace the word "C++" to "PHP".

## Answer

**Part (a)**

(i) To store the information shown in Table 1 into an associative array, we use the following PHP code:

```php
$state = array(
    "JH" => "Johor",
    "KL" => "Kuala Lumpur",
    "PH" => "Pahang",
    "PN" => "Penang",
    "PR" => "Perak",
    "SB" => "Sabah"
);
```

Explanation:

- The `$state` array is an associative array that stores the state abbreviation as the key and the state name as the value.

(ii) To display the `$state` array excluding "KL" (Kuala Lumpur), we use the following PHP code:

```php
foreach ($state as $abbreviation => $name) {
    if ($abbreviation != "KL") {
        echo "$name ($abbreviation)<br>";
    }
}
```

Explanation:

- The `foreach` loop iterates through each element in the `$state` array.
- The `if` statement checks if the state abbreviation is not equal to "KL".
- If the condition is met, it displays the state name and abbreviation.
- Therefore, the output will be:
  ```
  Johor (JH)
  Pahang (PH)
  Penang (PN)
  Perak (PR)
  Sabah (SB)
  ```

**Part (b)**

(i) The purpose of the `implode` and `explode` functions in PHP is as follows:

- `implode`: Purpose of this function is used to join array elements into a single string using a specified delimiter. For example:

```php
$array = array("JH", "PH", "PN", "PR", "SB");
$string = implode("-", $array);
// $string will be "JH-PH-PN-PR-SB"
```
Use implode when you have an array of items that you want to represent as a single string (e.g., converting an array of words into a comma-separated list).

- `explode`: This function is used to split a string into an array based on a specified delimiter. For example:

```php
$string = "JH-PH-PN-PR-SB";
$array = explode("-", $string);
// $array will be array("JH", "PH", "PN", "PR", "SB")
```

Use explode when you have a string that you want to break into an array of elements (e.g., parsing a CSV line into its component values).

(ii) Given a string `$branches = "JH-PH-PN-PR-SB";` To convert it to an array and display it, we use the following PHP code:

```php
$branches = "JH-PH-PN-PR-SB";
$branch_array = explode("-", $branches);
print_r($branch_array);
```

Explanation:

- The `explode` function is used to split the string `$branches` into an array based on the delimiter "-".

**Part (c)**

(i) Based on the given function `calProduct()`, to multiply two numbers and display the product, we use the following PHP code:

```php
function calProduct($num1, $num2) {
    $result = $num1 * $num2;
    echo "The product of $num1 and $num2 is: $result";
}

$msg = "I like C++ programming";
echo "Calculate a product of two numbers" . "<br>";
calProduct(2, 3);
```

> [!CAUTION]
> The function `calProduct()` should be defined before calling it in the code.

Explanation:

- The `calProduct()` function takes two parameters `$num1` and `$num2`, multiplies them, and stores the result in the variable `$result`.
- The product of the two numbers is then displayed using `echo`.
- In this case, the function `calProduct(2, 3)` is called with the arguments 2 and 3, resulting in the output "The product of 2 and 3 is: 6".

(ii) To replace the word "C++" with "PHP", we use the following PHP code:

```php
$msg = "I like C++ programming";
$msg = str_replace("C++", "PHP", $msg);
echo $msg;
```

Explanation:

- The `str_replace` function is used to replace all occurrences of the word "C++" with "PHP" in the string `$msg`.

> [!NOTE]
> If you only want to replace the first occurrence, you can use `str_replace("C++", "PHP", $msg, 1)`.