# Q4 Past Year Question and Answer

## Original Question

**Part (a)**

There are two methods of passing values to a PHP script: HTML's hidden input type, and URL's appended value.

(i) Write a code to show the use of HTML's hidden input type to pass a value discount when a submit button is clicked.

(ii) Write a code to carry a parameter named status and its value discount by appending them to confirm.php when a submit hyperlink is clicked.

**Part (b)**

What is the difference between using POST and GET methods in the following code?

```html
<form action="confirm.php" method="post"/"get">
<input type="text" name="name">
<input type="submit" name="button" value="Submit">
</form>
```

**Part (c)**

Explain TWO (2) main differences between cookie and session.

**Part (d)**

In jQuery event, hover() is the combination of mouseenter() and mouseleave(). Write a jQuery to show the respective alert messages "ENTER" and "LEAVE" when a mouse enters and leaves the following HTML element.

```html
<p class="special"> AMIT2043 </p>
```

**Part (e)**

Describe the operation of AJAX technology.

## Answer

**Part (a)**

(i) Use of HTML's hidden input type to pass a value discount when a submit button is clicked.

```html
<form action="process.php" method="post">
  <input type="hidden" name="discount" value="20">
  <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>
```

(ii) Carry a parameter named status and its value discount by appending them to confirm.php when a submit hyperlink is clicked.

```html
<a href="confirm.php?status=discount">Submit</a>
```

**Part (b)**

POST method sends data in the body of the request, making it more secure for sensitive information and allowing larger amounts of data to be sent. It is not visible in the URL.

GET method appends data to the URL, making it visible and easily shareable, but is limited in length and less secure for transmitting sensitive data.

POST 
- Sends data in the body of the request
- More secure for sensitive information
- Allows larger amounts of data to be sent
- Not visible in the URL

GET
- Appends data to the URL
- Visible and easily shareable
- Limited in length
- Less secure for transmitting sensitive data


**Part (c)**

1. Storage Location: Cookies are stored on the client's browser, whereas sessions are stored on the server.
2. Lifetime: Cookies can persist for a specified duration even after the browser is closed, whereas sessions typically expire once the user closes the browser or after a predefined period of inactivity.

**Part (d)**

jQuery to show the respective alert messages "ENTER" and "LEAVE" when a mouse enters and leaves the following HTML element.

```html
<p class="special">AMIT2043</p>

<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.5.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script>
  $(document).ready(function() {
    $(".special").hover(function() {
      alert("ENTER");
    }, function() {
      alert("LEAVE");
    });
  });
</script>
```

Explanation:

- The `hover()` function in jQuery is a combination of `mouseenter()` and `mouseleave()` events.
- When the mouse enters the `.special` element, the first function is executed to show the "ENTER" alert message.
- When the mouse leaves the `.special` element, the second function is executed to show the "LEAVE" alert message.

**Part (e)**

AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) allows web pages to be updated asynchronously by exchanging small amounts of data with the server behind the scenes. This means that parts of a web page can be updated without reloading the entire page, providing a smoother and faster user experience. It involves using the XMLHttpRequest object to send and receive data asynchronously.

AJAX operations typically involve the following steps:
1. An event triggers an AJAX request, such as a button click or page load.
2. The XMLHttpRequest object is created and configured with the necessary parameters, such as the URL and request type.
3. The request is sent to the server asynchronously.
4. The server processes the request and sends a response back to the client.