# Q2 Past Year Question and Answer

## Question:
**Part (a)**
Is PHP using tight data types? Justify your answer.
(3 marks)

**Part (b)**
Explain the main purpose of using heredoc and nowdoc in PHP and show the main difference between these two delimiters.
(4 marks)

**Part (c)**
Given the following book titles:

***Harry Porter, Lord of the Rings, Hunger Games, Twilight Saga***

Write PHP codes to:

(i) declare an index array to store the book titles.
(2 marks)

(ii) display each book title in a new line. (Hint: for or foreach)
(2 marks)

Given the following author for each book titles respectively:
    J.K. Rowling, J.R.R. Tolkien, S. Collins, S. Meyer
    (iii) declare a multidimensional associative array by using the keys 'title' and 'author'.
    (Hint: "title" => Harry Porter)
    (2 marks)
    
    (iv) display each book title with corresponding author in a new line. The sample output is as follows: (Hint: foreach...foreach)
    Harry Porter => J.K. Rowling  
    (5 marks)

**Part (d)**
Create a sticky form in search.php to allow users to submit a product code using POST method.
Product Code: N101 
Search

The codes should include a text field, a Search button and one hidden field.
(Hint: *\<form>* $_POST *\</form>*)

## Answer:
**Part (a)**
PHP is not using tight data types; it is a loosely typed language. This means that variables in PHP do not need to be declared with a specific data type and can change types dynamically. For example, a variable can hold an integer value at one point and later be assigned a string value without causing any errors. This flexibility allows for easier and faster coding but can lead to type-related bugs if not managed carefully.

**Part (b)**

The main purpose of using heredoc and nowdoc in PHP is to define multi-line string literals in a more readable way without needing to escape special characters.

- **Heredoc:** Allows for the embedding of variables within the string. It starts with <<< followed by an identifier, then the string, and ends with the same identifier.

```php
$name = "World";
$str = <<<EOD
Hello, $name!
This is a heredoc example.
EOD;
echo $str;
```

- **Nowdoc:** Similar to heredoc but does not parse variables within the string. It is useful when you want to output a block of text exactly as it is written. It starts with <<<' followed by an identifier, then the string, and ends with the same identifier.

```php
$name = "World";
$str = <<<'EOD'
Hello, $name!
This is a nowdoc example.
EOD;
echo $str;
```

The main difference is that heredoc parses variables within the string, while nowdoc treats the string as a plain text without parsing.

**Part (c)**

(i) Declare an index array to store the book titles:

```php
$books = ["Harry Porter", "Lord of the Rings", "Hunger Games", "Twilight Saga"];

$books = array("Harry Porter", "Lord of the Rings", "Hunger Games", "Twilight Saga");

```

(ii) Display each book title in a new line:

```php
foreach ($books as $book) {
    echo $book . "<br>";
}

for($i=0; $i<count($books); $i++){
    echo $books[$i] . "<br>";
}
```

(iii) Declare a multidimensional associative array by using the keys 'title' and 'author':

```php
$books_with_authors = [
    ["title" => "Harry Porter", "author" => "J.K. Rowling"],
    ["title" => "Lord of the Rings", "author" => "J.R.R. Tolkien"],
    ["title" => "Hunger Games", "author" => "S. Collins"],
    ["title" => "Twilight Saga", "author" => "S. Meyer"]
];

$books_with_authors = array(
    array("title" => "Harry Porter", "author" => "J.K. Rowling"),
    array("title" => "Lord of the Rings", "author" => "J.R.R. Tolkien"),
    array("title" => "Hunger Games", "author" => "S. Collins"),
    array("title" => "Twilight Saga", "author" => "S. Meyer")
);
```

(iv) Display each book title with corresponding author in a new line:

```php
foreach ($books_with_authors as $book) {
    echo $book["title"] . " => " . $book["author"] . "<br>";
}
```

This code will produce the following output:

```output
Harry Porter => J.K. Rowling
Lord of the Rings => J.R.R. Tolkien
Hunger Games => S. Collins
Twilight Saga => S. Meyer
```

**Part (d)**

```html
<form action="search.php" method="post">
    Product Code: <input type="text" id="product_code" name="product_code" value="<?php echo isset($productCode)? $productCode:'' ?>">
    <input type="submit" value="Search">
</form>
```
```php
<?php
if ($_SERVER["REQUEST_METHOD"] == "POST") {
    $productCode = htmlspecialchars($_POST["product_code"]);
}
?>
```

This form will display a text field for users to input a product code and a Search button. When the form is submitted, the product code will be sent to the search.php page using the POST method. The value of the product code will be displayed in the text field if it has been submitted before.
